---
layout: post
title: Curious about how your add-on will get along with Firefox 3?
tags:
- Mozilla
---
<p>Firefox 3 is coming down the pipeline along with a pile of great new features
like <a
href="http://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Online_and_offline_events">caching
web apps so they are available offline</a> and <a
href="http://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Places">the new Places API</a> that
provides a powerful interface to your bookmarks and history.  No need to fret if
your extensions will be compatible though - here's the lowdown on what it takes
to stay up to date:</p>

<p>Want to know the big changes and what's brand new in Firefox 3?  Check out <a
href="http://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Firefox_3_for_developers">Firefox 3
for developers</a>.</p>

<p>Want to get right to the part about updating your extensions for Firefox 3?
We've got <a
href="http://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Updating_extensions_for_Firefox_3">a
wiki page for that too</a>.</p>

<p>If you know your extension will work and you just want to know what you need
to do on <abbr title="addons.mozilla.org">AMO</abbr> check out <a
href="https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/blog/4">Justin's quick
review</a>.</p>

<p>For more personalized assistance feel free to ask your question in <a
href="irc://irc.mozilla.org/extdev">#extdev</a> on <a
href="http://irc.mozilla.org">irc.mozilla.org</a>.</p>

<p>If you'll be in Brussels, Belgium at the end of this month (February 23rd and
24th) you should consider hitting up Mozilla's <a
href="http://wiki.mozilla.org/Fosdem:2008:Workshop">Extension Developer's
Workshop</a> at <a href="http://fosdem.org/2008/"><abbr title="Free and Open
Source Software Developers' European Meeting">FOSDEM</abbr> 2008</a>.  It
promises a trifecta of awesomeness including <a
href="http://wiki.mozilla.org/Fosdem:2008:Attendees">helpful people</a>, <a
href="http://store.mozilla.org/">Mozilla swag</a>, and <a
href="http://fosdem.org/2008/beerevent">delicious beer</a>.</p>

<em>Edit: update first link to be more useful</em>
