---
layout: post
title: New AMO release cycle
tags:
- Mozilla
---
<p>I've been the lead of the <a href="https://addons.mozilla.org/">AMO</a> 3.4.x
development release cycles which have been going on for about 8 weeks.  During
that time we've been a little more structured with our release schedule.  The
general plan has been a code freeze every other Monday at midnight and a push to
production the following Thursday.  This gives us roughly ten days of coding and
two days of <abbr title="Quality Assurance">QA</abbr> and <abbr
title="Localization">L10n</abbr> for each push.  It's a compromise but it means
that we're never too far away from bug fixes and new features.  The short turn
around cycle also means there aren't dramatic changes which lead to confusion
and panic (I'm looking at you <a
href="http://forums.mozillazine.org/">mozillaZine</a> ;) <img
src="{{ site.baseurl}}/assets/img/heart.gif" alt="<3 Heart" />).</p>

<p>In an effort to keep the community informed I've also posted to <a
href="http://blog.mozilla.com/webdev/">the Webdev blog</a> when each release is
going out and linked to the bugs that are being fixed.</p>

<p>We've talked internally and think the new release process is working well
despite some cramming that consistently happens right before the code freeze
(also the FF3 launch threw off our schedule a bit).  I'm posting this here to
ask if anyone has noticed the change or if there is anything else anyone would
like to see from our release process (aside from fixing all the bugs...).  Let
us know how we can improve the process and we'll keep working on the bug
list.</p>
