---
layout: post
title: Choosing your own greener grass
tags:
- Mozilla
---
A lot of my time is spent trying to arrange projects and schedules so we can get
code shipped in a reasonable time.  AMO has the blessing/curse of being broad
enough that there is work to do in nearly every area on the site.  Once the
highest priority areas have people working on them there is still plenty of work
to go around that isn't as time critical.

Last March there was some feedback from developers about being tired of the code
they were working on and eyeing other technologies but not having the time to
work with them.  This is a fragile balance which every manager and developer has
had to struggle with.  Writing new code is always sexier than maintaining old
code, but the old code is the bread and butter that keeps you in business.
Finding a happy medium is a noble, elusive, and unfortunately, shifting goal.

Enjoying what you work on is crucial to being happy and productive though so
I'll continue to pursue that goal.

One of the changes we experimented with at the time was to let developers choose
their own focus for the quarter.  We still had high level quarterly goals that
needed to be done, but that left plenty of other time throughout the quarter to
work on any of those areas which were all equally important but perhaps not
equally as interesting.  I filled up a whiteboard with ideas one morning (and
left space for developers to add more) and we had a meeting later in the day
where anyone could discuss the ideas and sign up for what was interesting to
them.  This was a short term commitment from the developers and they got to work
on what they cared about.  From a managerial perspective, it increased
motivation but didn't sacrifice accountability.  Since I knew the focus of the
developers early in the quarter, I could help clear out roadblocks that they'd
meet before they even started working on their areas.

The quarter is over this week and overall the idea was a success.  All the
feedback from developers was positive - if you're looking for a way to spice up
the top-down approach to goal setting this was effective.  It also turned the
goal setting into more of a discussion rather than an edict that just shows up.

<em>I wrote this almost 9 months ago but apparently never hit publish.  So, here
it is.  We've played with it a bit since but haven't had a large quarterly
planning meeting like that because we're mainly focused on the marketplace.
Experimenting with smaller goals is a next step here, and doing the meetings on
a weekly or biweekly basis.</em>
