---
layout: post
title: A successful first FLOSSHack
---
<p>A few months ago Tim Morgan emailed the Portland OWASP chapter and suggested
that we organize a meeting where everyone could get together and audit some
existing software.  When vulnerabilities were found we would follow the
responsible disclosure life cycle and notify the maintainers before publicly
disclosing.  It would be a fun way to spend an afternoon, people would get
experience with responsible hacking, and the software maintainers would have the
opportunity improve their software.  The idea gained traction and <a
href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/FLOSSHack_One">FLOSSHack One</a> was
born.</p>

<p>I coordinated with <a href="http://www.ushahidi.com/">Ushahidi</a>, an open
source mapping application, to be the subject of the audit.  They were very
helpful, even participating during our meeting and answering questions about how
their application was built.  We had about ten people show up on a Sunday
afternoon and everyone got to work in a supportive environment for penetration
testing.  By working with the developers we were able to cover a lot of the code
and came up with several vulnerabilities to report which will be announced on <a
href="http://security.ushahidi.com/">security.ushahidi.com</a> as
appropriate.</p>

<p>Thanks to Tim for organizing the FLOSSHack, Ushahidi for supporting us on
their end,  and thanks to everyone who participated.  If you're interested in
doing your own, Tim wrote this <a
href="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/FLOSSHack">generic wiki page</a> which
should help.</p>
